#summary Examples and language definition
#labels Phase-Requirements,Featured

= Introduction =

This page describes the TestTag language. It begins with an overview of the language and follows with the user stories that guided the compiler development, containing some increasing complex examples.

= Language Overview =

The language was created with this things in mind:
  * *Avoid verbosity*: Test cases are really simple structures, so why fill the language with boilerplate syntax? We have curly braces and an "arrow"  (i.e. => ) as the main language elements.
  * *Based on Testlink, not restricted to*: The language was created to be used with Testlink but is not restricted to it. The language will be compiled/exported to other programs/formats in the future.
  * *Let the text editor help you*: The syntax/usage tips should be created to use the full power of the modern text editors, facilitating operations like _find and replace_ (with or without regular expressions), _column editing_, _syntax highlighting_ and _syntax folding_.
  * *You need a suite*: All test cases should be part of a test suite. Period.
----
= Part 1: Getting started =
In this section we will show the first user stories, that describes how to write your first test cases using our language. All examples compile with no errors.

== A "hello world" suite ==

User stories:
  * A test suite must have a name
  * A test case must have a name
  * A test case must be in a suite
  * A test case must have at least one step and it´s expected result

Example:
{{{
suite name {
  test case name {
    A sample step => The expected result
  }
}
}}}



== More steps ==

User stories:
  * A test suite can have more than one test case
  * A test case can have more than one step
  * A test step can have more than one line
  * A test step must have a single line expected result

Example:
{{{
suite {
  test 1 {
    Press enter after the result => The compiler will wait for the next step or a closing bracket
    Type something => It will be the second step
  }

  test 2 {
    A multi-line step can be created
    Just press enter => The step will have a line break on it
  }

  test 3 {
    You cant create a two line expected result => As the following line is treated as a new step
  }
}
}}}

== Test description ==

User stories:
  * A test case can have a test description

{{{
suite name {
  test case name {
    DESCRIPTION: Begin a line with "DESCRIPTION:" and you can type a single line test description
    A sample step => The expected result
  }
}
}}}

== Preconditions ==

User stories:
  * A test case can have one or more preconditions

{{{
suite name {
  test case name {
    PRE: Begin a line with "PRE:" and you can type a single line test precondition
    PRE: You can put more than one precondition on a test case
    A sample step => The expected result
  }
}
}}}

== Tips and tricks ==
To be written

----
= Part 2: Reuse =
In this section we will show how to use "tags" (or labels) to reuse steps and preconditions

== Tags ==
== Tips on tags ==
----
= Part 3: Other topics =
== Comments ==
== A multi-file suite ==